(upbeat music)
All right, we're gonna talk
about switch statements now.
And we already used a switch statement
when we did the Etch-A-Sketch.
But I'm gonna go over them just real quickly again,
so you have this video for reference,
and we'll do another silly example with a turtle.
So, what I want you to do is open up switchstatements.html.
This is in your playground folder.
And we're just gonna give ourselves an image tag
with a source to turtle.png,
we'll call it turt,
and give it class of turt.
And then we will, let's just do it right
in a script tag right here.
We'll go ahead and grab that turtle,
so const turtle is equal to document.queryselector
and we are going to grab the turt.
And looks like I accidentally put a capital on that,
take that off
and let's console log turtle.
And we've got it.
He's a little bit big,
let's put a width of 200 on that turtle,
much better.
All right, so we wanna make this turtle walk, right?
And we wanna make it flip around when we hit our arrow keys,
so first thing we'll do is we will listen for the key down.
So, window add event listener.
And this is just like we did before,
we'll listen for the key down and when that happens
we'll say, handle key down.
We'll go up here and make that function.
We'll grab the event
and we'll say, console log, event.key.
Down, left, right and then if I hit any key on there.
First thing I wanna do is,
if it's not an arrow key, we don't care.
We'll say, if the event.key.includes arrow
and if it does not include arrow, bang,
then we will simply just say, return.
So, here's a good use case where you can either
just return on one line, and that would be totally fine,
or we can put some curly brackets around it
whichever way you prefer.
I'll put the curly brackets there
just 'cause we're just learning.
So now, if we were to console log the event.key
we should only see keys that we care about,
down, right, left.
And I'm hitting all the other keys on my keyboard,
nothing is happening, good.
Now I wanna get this little guy moving.
So we will make some, let's say let x equal zero
and let y is equal to zero.
And then we'll say,
if somebody moves left, then we increase the x.
If they move right, then we decrease the x and vice versa.
So this is a use case for a switch statement.
So the way a switch will work is you type switch
and then you pass it, the thing that you're testing,
so we're gonna switch on the event.key, right?
And then what we have is a block which will contain
a whole bunch of different cases,
so each individual case.
So this is a little bit easier to look at
than an if statement in some use cases.
The only downside is that they have to
be clearly defined cases.
There's no like a case where it's greater than 20.
That's an if statement.
The case is always gonna be up, down, left, or right.
Case of arrow up, if that's the case.
Oh, there is no colon there, the colon goes here.
If that's the case then we say
the y is equal to y minus one.
And then we'll do arrow down.
Y is equal to y plus one.
Of course you could do y plus plus or y plus equals one,
those will both work.
I'll do case arrow up, down, left,
you notice that my prettier is not fixing it
for me in this case and that's because I am running it
in an HTML document and a script tag
and not separate javascript file.
So for the left we say x is equal to x plus one.
And then we arrow right, x is equal to x minus one.
The other thing we need is a break
because if you do not break then it will keep going down
each of them and we'll run into some trouble there.
So always break after each of your cases.
And then finally, your case should always have a default
where we can console log
that is not a valid move.
And we'll break from that.
So if you don't have that default for some reason,
I don't know, maybe something will get thrown in here,
like a arrow in, I don't know what could possibly happen,
but always have a default case that, if something goes awry
you have a default case to sorta handle that.
Then what we'll do is, we have these variables here
so we will take the turtle and move 'em over.
Let's just console log x and y.
Up, up, down, down, right, right, right,
down, down, down, right,
oh, I think I'm goin' the arrow right is equal to x plus one
and left is minus one.
I think that was, if I go up, down, right, left.
Okay, so those seem to be working just fine.
Then we need to convey these x and y values
to the turtle somehow.
So what I'm actually going to do
is I'm going to do it via CSS variables.
So we can take the style tag and this style tag can go
not in, oh, man, I put the image not in the body.
And then the style tag, I'll put the style tag above it.
Then we'll grab the turtle
and we'll say position relative
transform translate x
we'll just say 10px and translate y 10px.
Did he move?
Let's see.
No, it didn't grab the turtle.
Oh, it's 'cuz I used turt, that's a stupid class name.
Okay, here we go.
Now he moves and if I were to change this very slowly
moves over.
Now, what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna take these values
and put them into their own variables.
So, we say --x is 10px
and --y is 10px
and then we can swap these values out with var.
This is not javascript, this is regular CSS variables,
or they're called custom properties in CSS.
And we wanna use the x and y values.
Okay, now, if we change one of these x values,
you'll see that turtle moves along just fine.
Now, what I'm gonna do is, I'm going to update
these variables with javascript
so that the turtle will then move.
So we can take our x and our y and we can grab our turtle,
which is right here,
say turtle.style.
And here' is where you can apply styles directly to it.
So maybe we'll just say background is equal to red,
let's just show you how that works.
So watch when I push any key, what happens
is that we apply an inline style to this turtle.
So if we wanna apply a variable,
you can't just say like --x.
So if that's the case, we have to use what's called
square bracket notation and we haven't done this just yet.
We're gonna get into it when we look at arrays and objects.
But for now, know that you can also access
a property in two ways:
like that and with a square bracket string
to reference the object.
These two things are exactly the same.
Watch, if I take this one out, it will still turn red
whenever I push my keys.
Here we go.
So, I believe we can do --x is equal to
and we'll take our x value and say px,
and our y value and y px.
So, does that work?
Let's see.
Does not work.
Let's see here.
I believe because this is not a standard CSS attribute.
If we were to add in something we made up,
like, let's make up a CSS property called, madeup,
and we'll set that to green.
You'll notice how only the actual properties
that are real, a border 10px solid red,
you'll notice that only the CSS properties that are real
are going to be added to it.
So how do we apply custom CSS properties if it's not?
Well, we can reach for that set attribute
that we were looking at before.
So what we'll do here is we'll say the turtle.setattribute
and we'll set the style attribute to be a --x is equal to
and grab this.
Let's just make sure the x works.
We'll get rid of all of that.
Not sure why it's putting spaces there.
Why is it yelling at me about, oh, it's 'cuz I don't need
this opening tick here
and I don't need the double closing.
That should do it.
There we go.
Now when I use my x keys, you can see that that value
is now being updated in the style attribute.
So we can also do the same with the y attribute.
There we go, he's movin' along.
And let's set 'em back to a default of zero
so that he doesn't have that little jump at the start.
Oh, good.
And maybe we could also have like a speed operator.
So const speed is equal to five
and then we'll take the x and the y
and multiply that by speed.
Oh, there he goes, goes a little bit quicker.
And I believe we can also go on the turtle here
and say transition, transform over 0.2 seconds.
Yeah, I get a bit of a, like, I don't know,
see, he slows down there.
And then, let's crank up the speed.
This is gonna be a fast turtle.
50 times, woo!
Woo, weee, turtle's movin' all over the place.
Last thing I wanted to do is to flip 'em
like when you press the left arrow key,
he should be facing the other way.
'Cuz I don't think turtles walk backwards, do they?
Do turtles walk, do turtles have teeth?
Hold on, do turtles have teeth?
They do not have teeth, okay.
Now, do they walk backwards?
They physically can't go backwards.
(laughing)
Oh, poor guys.
Oh, that's hold on, there's a video here.
This little, is he goin' backwards?
All right, well, no, you know what?
The audio is fake.
Fake.
Okay, let's get this turtle walkin' backwards.
So, what we also need is a direction.
Let direction equals,
let's just have like normal and flipped, right?
So, when I press my arrow left,
we'll say the direction, ah, no, this is not a good idea.
We'll say let flipped is equal to false.
And then when we hit the left,
we'll say flipped is equal to true.
When we hit right, flipped is equal to false.
So, to flip him, I think we go into this transform.
And we say rotate 180 degrees?
(laughing)
He's upside down.
Ah, so just rotate x?
Oh, no, he's upside down still.
There we go.
Rotate y 180 degrees
or a 0.5 turn will also do the same thing.
Let's do 180 degrees,
I think that might be easier to understand.
So, we are going to make another variable called rotate
and we'll set that at zero
and we'll change the rotate y value
to be a variable of rotate
then we can go down here
and we can do a little shorthand here.
Since this is back ticks, we can actually put these
on their own lines, just like this.
And we'll say, the --rotate value is going to be,
we can do a little turnary here,
we'll say, if it is flipped
then it is going to be 180 degrees.
Otherwise it will be zero.
Is that gonna to work?
There, hey!
Oh, that doesn't work very well.
Oh, you know why?
It's because we are rotating it
before we move it.
So I wonder if I, take this sucker and put it at the end?
Will that fix it?
There we go.
That's because, if you rotate something
before you translate it, it's different than...
So the order here matters.
Look at this little turtle, whew!
Whew!
So we could also rotate him,
so I think just a regular rotate
of 90 degrees will put him, yeah, okay.
So let's make another,
this is a bad variable called rotate.
We'll make that called rotate x
and update that to rotate x
and then this to be rotate x.
So does it still work?
Good, okay.
And then we'll just make a regular rotate variable
called zero.
And we'll make that variable go in here.
So var --rotate.
Okay.
And then we need like another variable here.
So if this little guy is rotated, how many degrees?
So 90 degrees is going down
and then negative 90 is going up.
So, what we can just say is, let rotate is equal to zero
and when you go up, say rotate is equal to negative 90.
Down is 90
and then left and right will just be zero.
Is it?
Let's try it.
All right, then we can just simply take that rotate variable
and pass in the rotate degrees.
Yeah.
(laughing)
This is the stupidest thing I've ever built.
I love it, though.
Look at him go, little guy, little turtle.
So, beautiful.
Hopefully you learned a little bit about case switch
which is kinda boring
but also setting attributes and custom variables
and sort of flipping those over to CSS.
And this little cute guy is pretty fun.
If you have kids let them play with this for a little bit.
Maybe you could make him eat like a fly
or something like that.
See you on the next one.